W-14758017 AEH Jan 2024 release jh (#20)
mulesoft/docs-api-experience-hub: modules/ROOT/pages/testing-apis-using-an-api-instance.adoc

= Testing APIs Using an API Instance 
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

The API Console enables you to test an API using an API instance as a server. API instances let you interact with a server by sending requests and getting responses with actual data.

== Before You Begin
You must have an API specification with at least one endpoint and one method in it.

== Test an API Using an Instance

> . on the *Home* or the *APIs* page, select a REST API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On the *Home* or the *APIs* page, select a REST API.
```

> The API Console enables you to test an API using an API instance as a server. API instances let you to interact with a server that sends requests with responses of actual data. You can also add an authorization header and search for assets your organization using that instance. If an instance has authorization headers, the request fails when the authorization headers are not entered.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The API Console enables you to test an API using an API instance as a server. API instances let you interact with a server by sending requests and getting responses with actual data.
```

. Select the *API specification* tab.
. In the *Specification* pane, click a method like `get`.
. In the *Try it* pane, select an instance URL from the *Select Server* options.

> . Enter and query parameters you want to test.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Enter any query parameters you want to test.
```

> . Click *Send* to send simulated data to the API.

Reviewer 2: On Instances the data is not simulated
```suggestion
. Click *Send* to send data to the API.
```
